Now let's discuss
schema development.
In this lesson on evolving data,
you'll learn about developing
enterprise schema
environments and how
to iteratively create and
maintain enterprise data schemas.
You'll be using schemas
quite extensively.
Let's quickly review
what a schema is and
how helpful they are in the
context of production ML.
Schemas are relational
objects summarizing
the features in a given
dataset or project.
They include the feature name,
the feature of variable type.
For example, an integer, float,
string or categorical variable.
Whether or not the
feature is required.
The valency of the feature,
which applies to features with
multiple values like
lists or array features,
and expresses the minimum and
maximum number of values.
Information about the range and
categories and feature
default values.
Schemas are important,
as your data
and feature set
evolves over time.
From your experience,
you know that data keeps
changing and this change
often results in
change distributions.
Let's focus on how to
observe data that has
changed as it keeps evolving.
Changing data often results
in a new schema being generated.
However, there are some
special use cases.
Imagine that even before
you assess the dataset,
you have an idea or
information about
the expected range
of values for your features.
The initial dataset that you've
received is covering only a
small range of those values.
In that case, it makes
sense to adjust or create
your schema to reflect
the expected range of
values for your features.
A similar situation may exist for
the expected values of
categorical features.
Besides that, your
schema can help you
find problems or anomalies
in your dataset,
such as missing required values
or values of the wrong type.
All these factors have to
be considered when you're
designing the schema
of your ML pipeline.
As data keeps evolving,
there are some
requirements which must be
met in production deployments.
Let's consider some
important ones.
The first factor is reliability.
The ML platform of
your choice should be
resilient to disruptions
from inconsistent data.
There's no guarantee
that you'll receive
clean and consistent
data every time.
In fact, I can almost
guarantee you that you won't.
Your system needs to be designed
to handle that efficiently.
Also, your software
might generate
unexpected runtime errors and
your pipeline needs to
gracefully handle that also.
Problems with
misconfiguration should be
detected and handled gracefully.
Above all, the orchestration
of execution among
different components
in the pipeline
should happen smoothly
and efficiently.
Another factor to consider in
your ML pipeline platform is
scalability during
data evolution.
During training, your
pipeline may need to
handle a large amount
of training data well,
including keeping
expensive accelerators
like GPUs and TPUs busy.
When you serve your model,
especially in online scenarios
such as running on a server,
you'll almost always have
varying levels of
request traffic.
Your infrastructure needs
to scale up and down to
meet those latency requirements
while minimizing the cost.
If your system isn't designed
to handle data evolution,
it will quickly
run into problems.
These include the introduction of
anomalies in your dataset.
Will your system detect
those anomalies?
Your system and your
development process
should be designed to
treat data errors as
first-class citizens
in the same way
that bugs in your
code are treated.
In some cases, those anomalies
are alerting you that you need to
update the schema and
accommodate valid
changes in your data.
The evolution of your schemas
can be a useful tool to
understand and track the
evolution of your data.
Also, schemas can be
used as key inputs into
automated processes
that work with
your data like automatic
feature engineering.